content/posts/2020/2020-11-26-powershell-for-it-professionals-20-next-steps-with-powershell.md, before:

---
title: 'PowerShell for IT Professionals [#20] – Next Steps with PowerShell'
author: Kamil
date: 2020-11-26T17:46:00+00:00
url: /powershell-for-it-professionals-20-next-steps-with-powershell/
featuredImage: "/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/Slide1-2.jpg"
categories:
  - IT
  - PowerShell for IT Professionals
tags:
  - book
  - books
  - course
  - discord
  - dsc
  - function
  - module
  - next
  - powershell
  - training
  - twitter
  - video
  - what to learn next

---

{{<youtube OsoBfFkapjY>}}

## Congratulations!

This is 20th and last lesson in the course &#8211; and my aim here is to show you various paths you can take your PowerShell journey to.

I&#8217;m going to show what else you can do within PowerShell itself, as well how to keep up-to-day plus &#8211; what other doors writing code has opened for you &#8211; I&#8217;d love to hear back about this!

I hope you&#8217;ve enjoyed the course so far and it will be helped you in some way &#8211; either solve a problem, got promotion, or simply learnt something new. Let me know!

## Will there be any other courses or videos?

Possibly, however, I&#8217;ve got nothing planned now. 

Making the course was an experiment for me trying to work with video rather than blogging, and certainly it appealed to me. 

I would really appreciate any feedback you might have, as well as ideas of what you&#8217;d like to learn about.

## How can we stay in touch?

You can find me on Twitter [Kamil Procyszyn (@kprocyszyn) / Twitter][1]

Or YouTube [Kamil Procyszyn &#8211; YouTube][2]

Or LinkedIn [Kamil Procyszyn | LinkedIn][3]

## Links

[The DSC Book by Don Jones et al. [Leanpub PDF/iPad/Kindle]][4]

[Learn PowerShell in a Month of Lunches $31.99 Jul 2021 (manning.com)][5]

[Learn PowerShell Scripting in a Month of Lunches $35.99 Nov 2017 (manning.com)][6]

[Windows PowerShell in Action, 3rd ed. $47.99 Sep 2017 (manning.com)][7]

[Shell of an Idea by Don Jones [Leanpub PDF/iPad/Kindle]][8]

Discord PowerShell server &#8211; <https://discord.gg/Z9VrweH3br>

Official PowerShell Blog &#8211; [PowerShell | Automating the world one-liner at a time… (microsoft.com)https://devblogs.microsoft.com/powershell/][9]

 [1]: https://twitter.com/kprocyszyn
 [2]: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCUIpj37vVQFBRF7B5WDVaYQ/
 [3]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/kprocyszyn/
 [4]: https://leanpub.com/the-dsc-book
 [5]: https://www.manning.com/books/learn-powershell-in-a-month-of-lunches?query=powershell
 [6]: https://www.manning.com/books/learn-powershell-scripting-in-a-month-of-lunches?query=powershell
 [7]: https://www.manning.com/books/windows-powershell-in-action-third-edition?query=powershell
 [8]: https://leanpub.com/shell-of-an-idea
 [9]: https://devblogs.microsoft.com/powershell/

Commit message:

add redirection from previous course link

content/posts/2020/2020-11-26-powershell-for-it-professionals-20-next-steps-with-powershell.md, after:

---
title: 'PowerShell for IT Professionals [#20] – Next Steps with PowerShell'
author: Kamil
date: 2020-11-26T17:46:00+00:00
url: /powershell-for-it-professionals-20-next-steps-with-powershell/
featuredImage: "/wp-content/uploads/2020/11/Slide1-2.jpg"
categories:
  - IT
  - PowerShell for IT Professionals
tags:
  - book
  - books
  - course
  - discord
  - dsc
  - function
  - module
  - next
  - powershell
  - training
  - twitter
  - video
  - what to learn next

---

{{<youtube OsoBfFkapjY>}}

## Congratulations!

This is 20th and last lesson in the course &#8211; and my aim here is to show you various paths you can take your PowerShell journey to.

I&#8217;m going to show what else you can do within PowerShell itself, as well how to keep up-to-day plus &#8211; what other doors writing code has opened for you &#8211; I&#8217;d love to hear back about this!

I hope you&#8217;ve enjoyed the course so far and it will be helped you in some way &#8211; either solve a problem, got promotion, or simply learnt something new. Let me know!

## About PowerShell - my another series on PowerShell

I created a series where I focus on specific topics in PowerShell, deep dives. If you're feeling like learning more, check it out!

You can find a link at the top menu here.

## How can we stay in touch?

You can find me on Twitter [Kamil Procyszyn (@kprocyszyn) / Twitter][1]

Or YouTube [Kamil Pro | YouTube][2]

Or LinkedIn [Kamil Pro | LinkedIn][3]

## Links

[The DSC Book by Don Jones et al. [Leanpub PDF/iPad/Kindle]][4]

[Learn PowerShell in a Month of Lunches $31.99 Jul 2021 (manning.com)][5]

[Learn PowerShell Scripting in a Month of Lunches $35.99 Nov 2017 (manning.com)][6]

[Windows PowerShell in Action, 3rd ed. $47.99 Sep 2017 (manning.com)][7]

[Shell of an Idea by Don Jones [Leanpub PDF/iPad/Kindle]][8]

Discord PowerShell server &#8211; <https://discord.gg/Z9VrweH3br>

Official PowerShell Blog &#8211; [PowerShell | Automating the world one-liner at a time… (microsoft.com)https://devblogs.microsoft.com/powershell/][9]

 [1]: https://twitter.com/kprocyszyn
 [2]: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCUIpj37vVQFBRF7B5WDVaYQ/
 [3]: https://www.linkedin.com/in/kprocyszyn/
 [4]: https://leanpub.com/the-dsc-book
 [5]: https://www.manning.com/books/learn-powershell-in-a-month-of-lunches?query=powershell
 [6]: https://www.manning.com/books/learn-powershell-scripting-in-a-month-of-lunches?query=powershell
 [7]: https://www.manning.com/books/windows-powershell-in-action-third-edition?query=powershell
 [8]: https://leanpub.com/shell-of-an-idea
 [9]: https://devblogs.microsoft.com/powershell/
