---
title: Money
author: Kamil

date: -001-11-30T00:00:00+00:00
draft: true
url: /?p=1607
featuredImage: /wp-content/uploads/2020/03/jp-valery-9BatP4ovW2I-unsplash.jpg
wp_last_modified_info:
  - 24th March 2020 @ 1:47 pm
wplmi_shortcode:
  - '[lmt-post-modified-info]'
categories:
  - 'Me &amp; People'
tags:
  - budget
  - finance
  - savings

---
Money &#8211; some have more, some have less, certainly we all have cash. I will put here all the knowledge and practice I have about money &#8211; this involves a series of books, blogs, programs etc.  &#8211; literally anything that I&#8217;ve known and **tried**. No theory here, pure practice.

# The value of money

Have you actually ever thought what the value of money is? What is the real value of cash?

While talking to friends, they often see $50 as $50, no matter what &#8211; take it as face value. 

The most universal truth about the value I&#8217;ve found is how long do I need to work to earn it. When working for $50/day then it seems like a lot, but what if to earn the same amount, I need just one hour? Is it still the same value? Would you easily spend $50 on say video games, knowing it&#8217;s effectively costing you a whole day of labour? 

When I&#8217;ve started looking at anything that way, a lot of decisions became simpler &#8211; even when something might be slightly more expensive, but will require way less time to get (e.g. Driving 20 miles rather than ordering online) I often go for the less time-consuming option. 

<blockquote class="wp-block-quote">
  <p>
    Time is money, thus don&#8217;t waste time and come for the one.
  </p>
</blockquote>

# Money can get you freedom

Are you the one who has always trouble living from payslip to payslip? If so realise you&#8217;re giving a lot of your independence to whatever life throws at you. When effectively the bank account approaches NULL every month (or goes into sub-zero) it takes away a lot of your flexibility &#8211; or in other words, forces you into situations you&#8217;d rather not be.

  * Stuck in the job that brings nothing but hate, but afraid of looking for a new one, as you can&#8217;t lose cashflow?

  * Always having inside battle what I like vs what I can afford?

  * Unhappy partner because &#8220;we never go out &#8220;? 

  * By the first week after payday, all money disappear?
  * All your money sit in one account

These can be symptoms of bad money management.

# Let&#8217;s find out where we are

Before working out anything with money, it&#8217;s good to know how much money is left (or missing) after subtracting all income from the outcome. If you pay for everything with a credit/debit card then the task gets much easier, if you rather use cash, then receipts might be needed.

We need two columns &#8211; one called &#8220;Income&#8221; and the called &#8220;Outgoings&#8221;

In the income you list all money to enter your account &#8211; that is salary, eBay sells etc. &#8211; anything that increases your balance. Once everything there, summarise.

In the Outgoings column, you list all the details that decrease your balance &#8211; mortgage, bills, grocery shopping, pub visits etc. Summarise all the outcome records.

Now, subtract Income from Outgoings and see where you end up &#8211; is it on plus or minus? Is it how much you expected to be? Just working with numbers that way can open eyes where the money goes and can reduce the amount of not really needed spending. 

Example: I am a coffee lover, and can do with two on average a day. So let&#8217;s assume $3 a coffee, twice a day = $6, 30 times a month = $180&#8230; or $2160 a year. For a coffee, that&#8217;s mad. What I&#8217;ve done is bought a coffee to bean machine for $200 when it was for an order, and need to buy coffee bags and milk, let&#8217;s say that&#8217;s $20 a month. 

For the first year the cost is $200 for the coffee machine + $240 for coffee bags and milk for a year = $440. That is $1720 saved, and I own my own coffee machine.

Following years are then only $240 a year.

If the difference is not big enough, let&#8217;s do a 5-year comparison.

Coffee from the coffee shop: $2160 * 5 years = $10800. Almost 11 grand.

Coffee from the bean to cup machine: $240 a year * 5 years = $1200 + $200 for Coffee Machine = $1400

$10800 &#8211; $1040 = $9400 saved on coffee on the period of 5 years. This can easily make a couple of two week-long vacations over the year.

# Saving doesn&#8217;t mean to be a miser

Now we are coming to the point of the essence of saving &#8211; you spend of things that matter to you. If you don&#8217;t need to have the latest smartphone on the market, but love to travel &#8211; then rather than failing in a trap of &#8220;2 years up, time to upgrade&#8221;&nbsp; you can easily redirect the money into another travel destination.

The point here is to become more conscious of yourself and spending habits.  Quite often we can remove something we don&#8217;t really need, and not even notice after all.

Well, apart from more money on the account, obviously.

And since we are at the point of having more money&#8230;

# Emergency fund

Emergency fund is exactly how it sounds &#8211; the break glass in case of an emergency. When the sudden unexpected cost comes, rather than going into debt, you use your emergency fund instead. $1000 or $2000 would be great, but even less than that would still be beneficial.

How to establish how much must be there? If you rely on driving car, what would be cost of replacing a tire, or some part in it? If your boiler at home must be working, how much would it be to replace it? I appreciate a various insurances available out there, but most often you end up paying for something you never claim back for &#8220;peace of mind&#8221; &#8211; guess what, you can buy yourself a peace of mind without a third party.

To make emergency fund efficient, it must be **separate** from your main account  &#8211; this must be a separate bank account &#8211; by no means don&#8217;t fall in the trap of &#8220;I simply always keep at least one grand on my current account&#8221;. You will spend it when opportunity comes.

You can have this money in the same bank, but don&#8217;t want a debit card to it &#8211; what you have to do is to manually transfer the emergency money to your current account. The reasoning here is that money is not instant access, and requires a little bit of effort to use it. 

Ideally, you&#8217;ll choose some free to run saving account.

# Save 10% of your income

I&#8217;ve heard that concept many times but needed to read a book to implement it. The principle here is simple &#8211; you pay yourself first &#8211; that is, when the income comes, you straight away put away 10% to your saving account. Yes, that means separate from both current and emergency fund accounts.

The goal behind that saving account is to build up a financial pillow &#8211; when shit hits the fan, that&#8217;s your insurance.&nbsp; You can think about it as if you&#8217;ve lost job/income and need to survive. This money comes in hand at this very moment. 

What you can do is to set up a standing order going out to say, two days after your salary comes to your account, or sign up to so-called regular saver &#8211; it&#8217;s a special account that will automatically transfer chosen by your amount, often with a better percentage than common saving accounts.

How much should be on the account? At first, aim to have an equivalent of monthly **expenses**, rising from 3 to 12 months &#8211; the amounts depends purely on you, your stress resistance and circumstances. If you&#8217;re single and are certain that finding a new job/sufficient income source is a matter of a month, then three months worth of expenses is probably sufficient. On the other hand, if have family an are the only provider &#8211; then a year of savings might be needed.  

# It&#8217;s not about how much you earn&#8230;

You can earn 1 grand per hour, but if your burn rate is 1 grand per hour, then guess what &#8211; effectively you have nothing left. 

I think the easiest way to visualise this is real celebrities, who could earn in millions every year, and ultimately end up broke and in massive debt. In this context, it doesn&#8217;t matter that their income was ridiculously high if they commitments/mortgages/credits/lifestyle was burning it all without living anything for the future.

The other factor of spending vs saving is how long you need to keep saving to be able to not work for a year.

50% Savings, 50% spending = if you&#8217;ve saved 50% of your income, that means you only needed 50% of your income to live. Therefore after a year of saving 50%, you can live another **without working at all**. Let it sink in, it took me a while to realise that when I heard it for the first time.

Let&#8217;s for simplicity, say you&#8217;ve earned 100K during a year. You saved 50K, thus you only needed 50K to live through out the year. Therefore having saved 50k, you have nothing else to do. 

Let&#8217;s have a look at another example:

20% Saving, 80% saving = 20K saving a year, 80K spending a year. At this point, you need to save for 5 years to be able to independent for a year.

# Budget

Budget is something I&#8217;ve started doing three months ago, and can already see benefits of it, and certainly have more control over finances.

In principle, it&#8217;s very simple, and we kind of do it at the beginning of this text &#8211; we take all income, and outcome that comes from our pocket and working out how we&#8217;re performing. What is needed for budgeting is that:

  * it must be done on regular basis (daily or weekly &#8211; going beyond might be a real challenge)
  * it allows you to set expectation of how much you&#8217;re planning to spend on food this month vs how much you exactly spent
  * overtime provides historical data &#8211; this invaluable in picking up annual expenses like car&#8217;s service and MOT

To start simply you can create a few basic categories to start of:

  * Food &#8211; any grocery shopping, takeaway, lunches etc.
  * House &#8211; any cleaning materials, housework, rent/mortgage , Internet
  * Entertainment &#8211; anything from video games, music, movies &#8211; what you do purely for fun
  * Health &#8211; cost of drugs, dentists etc
  * Building savings &#8211; if you save cash,put it here. It goes off your main account, thus we want to keep a track of it
  * Paying debt &#8211; credit cards, loans etc. I wouldn&#8217;t put mortgage here, as it works as a rent &#8211; it&#8217;s a loan true, but otherwise, you&#8217;d be paying rent

Telling the truth &#8211; there&#8217;s no way you&#8217;ll be accurate with your expectations vs spending (apart from regular values) &#8211; but it&#8217;s a real eye-opener what really happens with your money, how much percentage of your income is being spent. 

And if you find out how much you spend on food in more details, you can create subcategories like eating at home, eating at restaurants, alcohol etc.

# Feeling like reading more?

Money: The user manual &#8211; really well written, it&#8217;s more focused about UK.

Retire before mom and dad &#8211; absolutely brilliant, has some US specific information, but most info is applicable wherever. As a bonus, WHOEVER created a series of video where he shows how to you spreadsheets to up your finance game..

The richest man in Babylon &#8211; if you still need convincing about saving 10% of your income

Bonus: Economics &#8211; if you&#8217;re really interested how money works, this book will explain you how the whole economics concept works.

Photo by [Jp Valery][1] on [Unsplash][2]

 [1]: https://unsplash.com/@jpvalery?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText
 [2]: https://unsplash.com/s/photos/money?utm_source=unsplash&utm_medium=referral&utm_content=creditCopyText
