---
title: Free ride
author: Kamil
type: post
date: 2016-01-31T12:49:40+00:00
url: /free-ride/
featured_image: /wp-content/uploads/2016/01/download.jpeg
ample_page_layout:
  - default_layout
categories:
  - 'Me &amp; People'
tags:
  - attitude
  - customers
  - knowledge
  - naive
  - wrong people

---
Nothing really makes me angrier than so called friends who remember about you only when they need something. They just wait to get free ride from you &#8211; because what&#8217;s a point to pay, if they can get it for free instead?

<!--more-->

#  It&#8217;s nice to be nice when you need something

Typical conversation looks like:

&#8211; Oh hi, we haven&#8217;t talked for a while, how are you? How&#8217;s your life? Still working same place? We should catch up one day.

Ekhm, _stop here_. Firstly, we haven&#8217;t spoken for a while, usually couple of months or even longer, and suddenly you need to know the story of my life. At least the recent one. Secondly, when I tried to get in touch  with you &#8211; just because &#8211; I was ignored.

&#8211; Oh, did you try to call me? I must have been busy, you know, with stuff.

Yeah, spare me that. But hey, don&#8217;t think I&#8217;m a bad guy. I tend to believe in peoples&#8217; good will. Actually, your intentions might be really genuine (honest) so let&#8217;s talk.

&#8211; Hello, all good thanks for asking. I&#8217;ve been here and there, done this and that etc. What&#8217;s your story?

Now, here comes the most anticipated part of the discussion. The essence of the intentions. The truthful intentions where selflessness disappears in the thin air&#8230;

&#8211; Ah you know, my computer been slow recently, maybe you could have a look?

Oh yeah, now I got you! I have literally nothing better to do than providing charity-based services. Quite often without any kind of thank you word.

## **I believe you can guess my answer easily.**

I honestly don&#8217;t understand why people don&#8217;t respect others&#8217; time and skills. It&#8217;s like going to a shop and asking for a free bottle of single malt. They&#8217;ve got plenty of them, one given free shouldn&#8217;t make any difference. But for some reason, we know that we cannot do it.

I learnt, that if you don&#8217;t respect yourself, nobody else will. And in this context, I mean value your expertise. There must be a reason why so called friend came to you rather than seek help at  the local PC World. Don&#8217;t be stupid, charge them as much as you would charge anyone else. No mercy at this opportunity.

# It&#8217;s all about time

Out of all the things I can offer to somebody, I value my time the most. It&#8217;s quite cliché &#8211; when it&#8217;s gone, it&#8217;s gone, I cannot get  my time back, get younger or whatever. I can travel, develop my skills, have fun or earn money, and therefore I don&#8217;t see a reason why I should be wasting it because someone is greedy. Not free ride this time, not with me. Sorry. I am sure there are others out there who will either be cheaper, or more naive than me.

There are only few people who can have my time:

  * My family, cause they are my family
  * My friends who I spend time with. I help you, you help me. It works both ways.
  * Pretty ladies, just because.

<div>
  All other people, I&#8217;m sorry, but either you pay or I will have more interesting stuff to do e.g. browsing pictures of cats on the Internet.
</div>

&nbsp;

I hope you will understand and/or learn from my words. I really value my time, and in certain areas I spent years in mastering some topics. Sometimes it is better to relax and don&#8217;t anything, rather than  let others to exploit myself for at the end of the day &#8211; nothing. Not a thank you word.

Why nothing? Because usually there&#8217;s nothing new to learn. Because you don&#8217;t earn anything. And the most annoying thing &#8211; you don&#8217;t gain a new friend. As soon as the job is done, and you close the door behind &#8211; your new so-called-friend just forgets you exist. They will be again busy with stuff, have more interesting things to do. Until one day, when they will need your knowledge and expertise again.

# Providing free service you loose twice:

Firstly, as I said before, you literally gain nothing. Secondly, you loose your time. Thirdly &#8211; you make them think that this is normal, to get a free service, so they will keep trying to find another naive specialist. Therefore, you don&#8217;t gain anything, as well as others.

Oh, and coming back to the conversation it ended like:

Me: &#8216;Yes of course, but it will cost you £xxx for that kind of service.&#8217;

So-called-friend: &#8216;Really? That&#8217;s great, but look my lunch break is finished and need to go back to work. I will speak to you later.&#8217;

##  That &#8220;later&#8221; never came. Actually, it never comes.

PS. Imagine that you have provided someone with a free service, &#8217;cause you&#8217;re a good lad. Imagine that this wasn&#8217;t good enough, or got broken or something like that. Therefore your new friend calls you again, and again and again. It&#8217;s like never ending story. Therefore if you are not in any of the  above categories feel excluded from my service. End of.